# Anti-lost device searcher app--- _Find_
##Author: HJ.X

##1. Software Introduction
This app is a peer-to-peer single-hop communication application based on Bluetooth and WIFI direct implementation.It combines Bluetooth BLE and traditional Bluetooth scanning, RSSI ranging and many other features to achieve a more innovative Android anti-loss application<br><br>
the `compileSdkVersion` and `targetSdkVersion` is 32 in this project. And projects can only be run when connected to a real phone, as Android Studio's virtual machine does not have Bluetooth or WIFI capabilities. In addition, the running phone Android version is `Android 12.`
##2. Function Introduction
This app is an item search and anti-lost app mainly based on Bluetooth and Wi-Fi direct technology. It can not only be used for simple item search, save, and locate functions, but also use peer-to-peer communication to connect different mobile phones in series.
That is to say, you can connect another friend who has downloaded this app and transmit the device information you want to find to your friend through Bluetooth or Wi-Fi direct technology.
<br>
<br>
This means in this decentralized network, you can act as a central node to spread your search information, thereby greatly increasing the probability of finding your lost device. At the same time, when your friend passes by the device you are looking for intentionally or unintentionally, the mobile phone will record the GPS address of the mobile phone when it was found at that time and transmit the location information and the found time to you the next time when your friend connects with you, thus realizing the anti-lost and search functions
##3. Detailed usage method
There are also some caveats before you can officially use it, for example, you need to turn on the get address and nearby devices permissions and the region permission needs to be on all the time, otherwise you may not be able to access the app properly or scan for nearby devices. In addition, to be able to use the map tagging feature properly in the future, you will also need to be connected to WIFI or cellular mobile data, otherwise Bing Maps will not load properly.<br><br>
The ‘Home’ page of the app is a Bluetooth List page, which is used to store your saved devices. In the setting button in the upper right corner, some function buttons of the app are stored.  <br><br>
For example, 'Add Device' is used to bind the device you are looking for through Bluetooth and note that the bound device must also turn on Bluetooth. In addition, you can also note the devices you bind with a note name to better classify them. <br><br>
'Open global Search' and 'Close global Search' are the opening and closing keys of the search, which correspond to different states. In the open state, the app will automatically search all the devices in the list globally, otherwise, closing will stop the search. But when you click on any device in the list, no matter whether it is turned open or close at this time, the app will only search for the device you clicked and will automatically return to the main page and stop searching after you click 'Find it'. ‘triangulation positioning’ used to find a rough position by calculating the three geographic information and rssi of an object, but this function is still in testing and may produce results with large errors, so it is only used as a secondary reference. <br><br>
In addition, there is a ‘Set’ function in the top left corner of the ‘Home’ page, in which you can make some changes to the scanning or prompting, including setting the reminder distance, setting the scanning frequency, whether or not to turn on vibration prompting, choosing the scanning algorithm, setting the PIN and other basic settings.<br><br>
And in below part of the ‘Home’ page, there list three functions which are BT, P2P, download, and this introduction menu.<br><br>
‘BT’ is one of the peer-to-peer functions of the app which implemented by using the Bluetooth protocol to forward JSON files at the application layer, which means that you can search and connect to your friend's device through Bluetooth to transfer information. In this interface, the first thing you see is a Bing map. Note that your mobile phone must have a network connection by default, otherwise the map will not be displayed, and the map shows your current geographic location. <br><br>
In the settings in the upper right corner, the first 'My friends' is the Bluetooth device you are currently or have been connected to, click on the 'SEARCH FRIENDS' below to start the search, but be careful, only after your friend clicks the second button 'Set visible', you or your friend will be searched. <br><br>
When you are connected with your friend and paired successfully, you can make a note to your friend, and the status in the upper right corner will also become connected. At this time, when you click 'SEND DEVICE TO HELP FIND' and check the device information you want to transfer, your friend will receive the device you are looking for. Similarly, when your friend finds it, click ' GET MY DEVICE' to receive information about the device found. But in the unconnected state, the app will prompt: ‘You have not linked a device yet'. <br><br>
The function of ‘P2P' is almost the same as the former, the only difference is that the mobile phone can transmit through Wi-Fi direct, which requires both your and your friend's mobile phones to support the Wi-Fi direct function, and this function must be turned on in advance transmission.<br><br>
The 'My friends' in the settings in the upper right corner is also to save your connected friends, and you can search for friends through 'SEARCH FRIENDS'. It is also worth noting that both parties need to be able to scan each other in their FRIENDS LIST for the WIFI P2P transfer function to work. In the same way, after connecting you can send and get to your device through the 'SEND' and 'GET' functions. <br><br>
The 'Download' page holds a QR code that can be scanned by an Android phone to download the APK file of this app. This function can be used to promote it to friends in some usage scenarios, thus stimulating the extension of the self-associative function and bringing more nodes into the search.<br><br>
This is the general usage mode and method of this app. I hope you like it and think this app is a practical and expandable app.
   <br><br>
   Best wishes.
